---
title:  "An abstract workflow for BGP implementations"
date:   2020-10-07
categories: xbgp
author: olivier
---


The first step to allow BGP implementations to be programmed is to
have a clear understanding of how the BGP protocol operates and how it
processes and sends messages. If we ignore the establishment of BGP
sessions and the detection of failures, all BGP implementations need
to implement the workflow described in the figure below.

![BGP workflow]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/bgp-arch.png)

This workflow corresponds to the abstraction description of the BGP
protocol in [RFC4271](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4271). It
illustrates the different datastructures that a BGP implementation
must maintain and how BGP messages are processed. BGP messages are
received on the left part of the figure and sent on the right. A BGP
router maintains one BGP session with each peer. It stores several
configuration parameters for each peer (IP address, AS Number, ...)
and associates an import filter to each peer. These filters are
typically configured using vendor-specific commands or using NETCONF.
When a BGP message is received over a BGP session it first passes
through the import filter that may add or modify some of its
attributes (e.g. local-pref or communities). It may also decide to
discard the message (e.g. because it contains an invalid prefix). If
the BGP message is accepted by the import filter, it is stored in the
session's BGP-Adj-RIB-In and then sent to the BGP-Loc-RIB. This RIB
contains all the routes received from the different peers and
accepted by their associated import filters. It is used by the BGP
decision process to select the best route towards each IP prefix. This
decision process is executed when a route is added or removed from the
BGP-Loc-RIB and when the routes towards BGP nexthops change. The
routes chosen by the BGP decision process are then pushed to the
router's FIB and advertised to peers, subject to the per-session
export filters.

Starting from this workflow, one can identify five critical points in
the processing of BGP messages. These points are identified with green
circles in the figure below.

![BGP insertion points]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/bgp-points.png)

The first of these points is the reception of a BGP message from a
peer. Several BGP extensions have defined new BGP attributes. This
point is the part of the BGP implementation that parses the BGP
message. To support a new BGP attribute, this is where a plugin could
add new code to parse and process a new BGP attribute.

The second point corresponds to the import filters. This is a
important part of a BGP implementation. When a new BGP attribute is
defined, it typically needs to be supported in the import filter that
could for example add the attribute to a BGP message or use its
content in the filter.

The third point is the BGP decision process. This is a key part of a
BGP implementation since network operators often need to tune the BGP
decision process and modify how the best route is selected. By
inserting plugins at this point, network operators 

The fourth point corresponds to the export filters. As for the import
filters, this is where new BGP attributes would be processed by the
filters.

The last point is the encoding of the BGP messages that are sent to
peers. This is where a new BGP attribute would be written before being
sent on the wire.

In following blog posts, we'll describe how plugins can be attached to
these insertion points to support different types of BGP extensions.
